OpenSSF Technology Consumption Architecture for Dependency Management (#17)
ossf/security-baseline: architecture/consumption-architecture-dependency-management.md

# Introduction
## Context and Scope
This document captures technologies that are hosted in OpenSSF and some technologies in CNCF. The technical stack in this document demonstrates how OSS security technologies make software supply chain more secure through dependency management. 

The goals of this document are:

> 1. To help open source producers quickly navigate the OSS security technology landscape, discover, adopt and contribute to technical initiatives. 

Reviewer: "navigate" is an intermediate goal, not really a final goal. It also doesn't make it clear that our focus is on OpenSSF projects vs. all possible technology. How about:

To help open source software producers discover, adopt as appropriate, and contribute to technical initiatives of OpenSSF (and related foundations) to improve security.

Author: Thank you @david-a-wheeler for taking the time. Updated the goal per your suggestion.

> 2. To provide an easy model for our end user organizations large and small to have a framework/reference architecture to help them think about adopting OpenSSF technical projects and guidance. 

Reviewer: "think about" is weak. Maybe "consider"?

Author: Thank you @david-a-wheeler for taking the time. Updated the wording per your suggestion.

## Intended Audience
Open source software maintainers, contributors and consumers are the intended audience of this document.

The document answers these questions:
* As an open source software producer, I'd like to adopt open source security technologies to produce more secure open source software. What resources does OpenSSF provide? 
* As an open source software consumer, I'd like to adopt open source security technologies to consume secure open source software. What resources OpenSSF provide? 
* As an open source software producer and a consumer, I'd like to contribute to open source security technologies, which OpenSSF projects need contributors? 

## Nomenclature
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

# Open Source Software Dependency Management 
Open source software is the foundation of the digital world we live in. It powers critical infrastructure and impacts people's everyday lives. 

> [SonaType latest state of the software supply chain report](https://www.sonatype.com/state-of-the-software-supply-chain/Introduction) has show among the monitored OSS ecosystems:

Reviewer: Change
> SonaType
to
> Sonatype's

Change "has show" to "has shown"

Author: Thank you @david-a-wheeler for taking the time. Updated the wording per your suggestion.

* An average 29% of year-over-year growth of OSS projects
* Demands for open source ecosystems are still growing, measured by the number of download requests
* The number of malicious packages tripled in 2023 compared to 2022. 
* In September 2023, 245,032 malicious packages were discovered, 2x all previous years (2019-2022) combined. 
  

> [Synopsys latest open source security and risk analysis report](https://www.synopsys.com/software-integrity/resources/analyst-reports/open-source-security-risk-analysis.html?utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_term=open_source_security_tool&utm_campaign=G_S_OSSRA_BMM&cmp=ps-SIG-G_S_OSSRA_BMM&gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAjwko21BhAPEiwAwfaQCKkvVOJOS1uu4S7zF1p9uqhcdwrCNXNbMl7EcD5L0SIgS58-jUj_OxoC7FwQAvD_BwE#introMenu) has shown that among the surveyed comemrcial software:

Reviewer: Please run spellcheck. E.g.: "comemrcial".

Author: Thank you @david-a-wheeler for taking the time. Fixed the typo.

* [giituf](https://github.com/gittuf/gittuf) is an OpenSSF [sandbox](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/process/project-lifecycle.md#stages---definitions--expectations) project hosted in the [Supply Chain Integrity Working Group](https://github.com/ossf/wg-supply-chain-integrity). It provides a security layer over Git. It's in active development phase and conducts policy validation. 
* [Witness](https://github.com/in-toto/witness) is a CNCF project under the [in-toto](https://github.com/in-toto) umbrella that protects software supply chain integrity. Witness comes with an OPA policy engine that verifies the software attestation and ensures that your dependency was handled safely from source to deployment. Witness in-toto attestation feature is available for CI systems on OSS producer side and consumer side  

> * [Repository Service for TUF(RSTUF](https://github.com/repository-service-tuf/repository-service-tuf) is an OpenSSF [incubating](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/process/project-lifecycle.md#stages---definitions--expectations) project in the [Securing Software Repositories Working Group](https://github.com/ossf/wg-securing-software-repos). The verification component of RSTUF provides metadata verification to ensure the software that's being ingested is as expected. RSTUF metadata verification can be used by both CI systems on OSS producer side and consumer side.    

Reviewer 2: I definitely think that RSTUF plays a role here but, I'm struggling to provide a different description for this context. I'm sure that @kairoaraujo can help. ☺️

Author: @kairoaraujo, the document has the latest update based on our recommendation.

> * [Repository Service for TUF(RSTUF](https://github.com/repository-service-tuf/repository-service-tuf) is an OpenSSF [incubating](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/process/project-lifecycle.md#stages---definitions--expectations) project in the [Securing Software Repositories Working Group](https://github.com/ossf/wg-securing-software-repos). The verification component of RSTUF provides metadata verification to ensure the software that's being ingested is as expected. RSTUF metadata verification can be used by both CI systems on OSS producer side and consumer side.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Repository Service for TUF(RSTUF](https://github.com/repository-service-tuf/repository-service-tuf) is an OpenSSF [incubating](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/process/project-lifecycle.md#stages---definitions--expectations) project in the [Securing Software Repositories Working Group](https://github.com/ossf/wg-securing-software-repos). It implements the TUF repository, offering a suite of components designed to secure content downloads (any artifact) from tampering between the repository and the client through the use of TUF metadata. This metadata is useful for both CI systems on the OSS producer side and the consumer side.
```

> The target state of achieving end to end OSS supply chain security is to have policy enforcement at every link of the supply chain. As software flows from OSS producers' development environment into the SCM system, a Policy Enforcement Point (PEP) should only allow the software into the SCM system when the software meets pre-defined policies, CI system should fail the integration that's triggered by an SCM event if PEP policy validation fails, package registry should block a package being published or prevent a package from being distributed when PEP identified policy violation. Similar policy enforcement should be adopted on the consumer side as well. in-toto attestation provides the metadata for PEP. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The target state of achieving end to end OSS supply chain security is to have policy enforcement at every link of the supply chain. As software flows from OSS producers' development environment into the SCM system, a Policy Enforcement Point (PEP) should only allow the software into the SCM system when the software meets pre-defined policies, CI system should fail the integration that's triggered by an SCM event if PEP policy validation fails, package registry should block a package being published or prevent a package from being distributed when PEP identified policy violation. Similar policy enforcement should be adopted on the consumer side as well. In-toto attestation provides the metadata for making policy decisions at a PEP.
```

The digram illustrates the supports that OSS projects expect to get from the ecosystems that host the projects, and the typical patterns that OSS consumers in an organization adopt to manage software securities including dependency manageent. 

### Frameworks, Specifications, Standards, Education and Training

![State](./images/OpenSSF_Practitioner_Framework_state.jpg)
![Frameworks, Specifications, Standards, Education and Training](./images/OpenSSF_Practitioner_Framework_Framework_Specifications_Standards_Education.jpg)

OpenSSF and peer foundations hosts software security frameworks, specifications, standards that propels the development of security tooling. This section focuses on the technologies that we have not got a chance to touch on in the previous sections:
* [S2C2F](https://github.com/ossf/s2c2f) is an an OpenSSF [incubating](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/process/project-lifecycle-documents/s2c2f_incubation_stage.md) project in the [Supply Chain Integrity Working Group](https://github.com/ossf/wg-supply-chain-integrity). It's for OSS consumers' organizations. The framework defines how to securely consume OSS dependencies by the developers.

> * [SBOMit](https://github.com/sbomit) is a [sandbox](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/process/project-lifecycle-documents/SBOMit_sandbox_stage.md) project in OpenSSF [Security Tooling Working Group](https://github.com/ossf/wg-security-tooling). It standardizes the naming and location of SBOMs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [SBOMit](https://github.com/sbomit) is a [sandbox](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/process/project-lifecycle-documents/SBOMit_sandbox_stage.md) project in OpenSSF [Security Tooling Working Group](https://github.com/ossf/wg-security-tooling). It standardizes an SBOM format agnostic method for attesting components with additional verification information.
```

Author: Thank you @jkjell for making updates! really appreciate it!

* [CycloneDX](https://cyclonedx.org/) is backed by [OWASP Foundation].(https://owasp.org/) It's a full-stack Bill of Materials (BOM) standard that provides advanced supply chain capabilities for cyber risk reduction. It supports SBOM, Machine Learning Bill of Materials (ML-BOM), Cryptography Bill of Materials (CBOM), Vulnerability Disclosure Reports (VDR), Vulnerability Exploitability eXchange (VEX) and CycloneDX Attestations (CDXA).
* [in-toto](https://github.com/in-toto) is a CNCF project. It's a framework for protecting software supply chain integrity. It relies on in-toto attestation to verify that each task in the chain is carried out as planned, by authorized personnel only, and that the product is not tampered. The in-toto attestation framework provides a specification for generating attestation about how a piece of software is produced. Consumers or users of software can use the attestation to validate the origins of the software, and establish trust in its supply chain.

> * [TUF](https://github.com/theupdateframework) is a framework for securing software update systems. OpenSSF RSTUF is an implementation of TUF and abstracts the implementation details from RSTUF consumers into API calls.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [TUF](https://github.com/theupdateframework) is a framework for securing software update systems. [OpenSSF RSTUF](https://repository-service-tuf.readthedocs.io) is an implementation of TUF and abstracts the implementation details from RSTUF consumers into API calls.
```
